docs/operations.md, before:

# Operations Guide

This guide covers common operational tasks for the Network Automation application.

## Table of Contents
- [Initial Setup](#initial-setup)
- [Managing Devices](#managing-devices)
- [Running Commands](#running-commands)
- [Configuration Management](#configuration-management)
- [Compliance Checking](#compliance-checking)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Initial Setup

### Starting the Application

1. **Bootstrap dependencies and deploy to Kubernetes**:
```bash
make bootstrap
make dev-up
```

2. **Check service health**:
```bash
make k8s-status
kubectl logs -f deployment/backend -n default      # Backend logs
kubectl logs -f deployment/worker -n default       # Celery worker logs
```

3. **Run migrations & verify database**:
```bash
make migrate
kubectl exec deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto -d netauto -c "\dt"
```

4. **Create/refresh the default admin user and seed data**:
```bash
make seed-admin
```

### Stopping the Application

```bash
make dev-down
kubectl delete pvc sqlite-pvc postgres-pvc --ignore-not-found=true -n default  # optional wipe
```

## Managing Devices

### Adding Credentials

Credentials must be created before adding devices.

**Via API**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/credentials \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "cisco_lab",
    "username": "netadmin",
    "password": "C1sc0Passw0rd!",
    "enable_password": "En@bleP@ss"
  }'
```

**Via Python Script**:
```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, Credential

db = SessionLocal()
cred = Credential(
    name="cisco_lab",
    username="netadmin",
    password="C1sc0Passw0rd!",  # Should be encrypted
    enable_password="En@bleP@ss"
)
db.add(cred)
db.commit()
print(f"Credential created with ID: {cred.id}")
db.close()
PY
```

### Adding Devices

**Single Device via API**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "hostname": "sw-core-01",
    "mgmt_ip": "192.168.1.10",
    "vendor": "cisco",
    "platform": "ios",
    "role": "core",
    "site": "HQ",
    "tags": {"environment": "production"},
    "credentials_ref": 1,
    "enabled": true
  }'
```

**Bulk Import via Python Script**:
```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, Device, Credential

devices_data = [
    {"hostname": "sw-core-01", "mgmt_ip": "192.168.1.10", "platform": "ios"},
    {"hostname": "sw-core-02", "mgmt_ip": "192.168.1.11", "platform": "ios"},
    {"hostname": "sw-edge-01", "mgmt_ip": "192.168.2.10", "platform": "ios"},
]

db = SessionLocal()
cred = db.query(Credential).filter(Credential.name == "cisco_lab").first()

for data in devices_data:
    device = Device(
        hostname=data["hostname"],
        mgmt_ip=data["mgmt_ip"],
        vendor="cisco",
        platform=data["platform"],
        credentials_ref=cred.id,
        enabled=True
    )
    db.add(device)

db.commit()
print(f"Imported {len(devices_data)} devices")
db.close()
PY
```

### Viewing Devices

**List all devices**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Filter devices by site**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices?site=HQ" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Search devices**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices?search=core" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

### Updating Devices

```bash
curl -X PUT http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices/1 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "role": "distribution",
    "tags": {"environment": "production", "updated": "2024-01"}
  }'
```

### Deleting Devices

Deletion is a soft delete (sets `enabled=false`):
```bash
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices/1 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

## Running Commands

### Ad-Hoc Command Execution

**Single command**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/commands/run \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"site": "HQ"},
    "commands": ["show version"]
  }'
```

Response:
```json
{
  "job_id": 123
}
```

**Multiple commands**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/commands/run \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"role": "core"},
    "commands": [
      "show version",
      "show ip interface brief",
      "show running-config | include hostname"
    ]
  }'
```

**Targeting specific devices**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/commands/run \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"device_ids": [1, 2, 3]},
    "commands": ["show interfaces status"]
  }'
```

### Monitoring Job Progress

**Get job status**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/jobs/123 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Get job logs**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/jobs/123/logs \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Get command results**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/jobs/123/results \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

### Live Log Streaming

Connect via WebSocket for real-time updates:
```javascript
const ws = new WebSocket('ws://localhost:8000/ws/jobs/123');

ws.onmessage = (event) => {
  const log = JSON.parse(event.data);
  console.log(`[${log.level}] ${log.host}: ${log.message}`);
};
```

## Configuration Management

### Backing Up Configurations

**Backup all devices**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/backup \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {},
    "source_label": "manual"
  }'
```

**Backup specific site**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/backup \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"site": "HQ"},
    "source_label": "scheduled"
  }'
```

### Viewing Configuration History

**List snapshots for a device**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices/1/config/snapshots \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Get specific snapshot**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/snapshots/456 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Compare two snapshots**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices/1/config/diff?from=456&to=457" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

### Deploying Configuration Changes

**Step 1: Preview changes**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/deploy/preview \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"device_ids": [1]},
    "mode": "merge",
    "snippet": "interface GigabitEthernet0/1\n description UPLINK\n"
  }'
```

This returns a job_id. Check the results to see the diff:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/jobs/789/results \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Step 2: Commit changes** (only if diff looks good):
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/deploy/commit \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "previous_job_id": 789,
    "confirm": true
  }'
```

### Rollback

If a commit fails, NAPALM automatically rolls back. To manually rollback:
1. Get the previous config snapshot
2. Deploy it using replace mode (with extreme caution)

## Compliance Checking

### Creating Compliance Policies

**Example policy YAML**:
```yaml
# ntp_policy.yaml
- get_facts:
    os_version: "15.6"

- get_ntp_servers:
    _mode: strict
    10.1.1.1: {}
    10.1.1.2: {}
```

**Create policy via API**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/policies \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "NTP Configuration",
    "description": "Ensures NTP servers are configured",
    "scope_json": {"role": "core"},
    "definition_yaml": "<YAML_CONTENT_HERE>"
  }'
```

### Running Compliance Checks

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/run \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "policy_id": 1
  }'
```

### Viewing Compliance Results

**All results**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/results \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Filter by policy**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/results?policy_id=1" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Filter by device**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/results?device_id=1" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Filter by status**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/results?status=fail" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### "Cannot connect to database"

Check PostgreSQL is running:
```bash
make k8s-status
kubectl logs deployment/postgres -n default
```

Verify connection:
```bash
kubectl exec deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto -d netauto -c "SELECT 1;"
```

#### "Celery worker not processing jobs"

Check worker status:
```bash
kubectl get pods -l app=worker -n default
kubectl logs deployment/worker -n default
```

Check Redis:
```bash
kubectl exec deployment/redis -n default -- redis-cli ping
```

Restart worker:
```bash
kubectl rollout restart deployment/worker -n default
```

#### "Device connection timeout"

1. Verify device is reachable:
```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- ping -c 3 <device_ip>
```

2. Check credentials are correct:
```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, Device, Credential

db = SessionLocal()
device = db.query(Device).filter(Device.hostname == "sw-core-01").first()
cred = device.credential
print(f"Username: {cred.username}")
# Test connection manually
db.close()
PY
```

3. Check firewall rules allow SSH from container

#### "Frontend cannot connect to backend"

Check CORS settings in `backend/app/core/config.py`:
```python
cors_origins: list[str] = ["http://localhost:3000"]
```

Verify backend is accessible:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/health
```

### Debugging

#### Enable debug logging

**Backend**:
Edit `backend/app/core/config.py`:
```python
log_level: str = "DEBUG"
```

Restart:
```bash
kubectl rollout restart deployment/backend -n default
```

**Celery**:
```bash
# Edit the deployment and change the command/args to include --loglevel=debug
kubectl edit deployment/worker -n default

# Follow logs once it restarts
kubectl logs -f deployment/worker -n default
```

#### View all logs

```bash
# Backend API
kubectl logs -f deployment/backend -n default

# Worker
kubectl logs -f deployment/worker -n default

# Last 100 lines without streaming
kubectl logs deployment/backend -n default --tail=100
```

#### Database inspection

```bash
kubectl exec -it deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto -d netauto <<'SQL'
\dt
SELECT id, hostname, mgmt_ip, enabled FROM devices LIMIT 5;
SELECT id, type, status, requested_at FROM jobs ORDER BY requested_at DESC LIMIT 10;
SELECT job_id, level, host, message FROM job_logs ORDER BY ts DESC LIMIT 20;
SQL
```

### Performance Tuning

#### Increase Celery workers

Edit `k8s/worker.yaml`:
```yaml
containers:
- name: worker
  command:
  - celery
  - -A
  - app.celery_app
  - worker
  - --loglevel=info
  - --concurrency=4
```

#### Database connection pooling

Edit `backend/app/core/config.py`:
```python
database_url: str = "postgresql://netauto:netauto@postgres:5432/netauto?pool_size=20&max_overflow=10"
```

#### Redis memory limit

Edit `k8s/redis.yaml`:
```yaml
containers:
- name: redis
  command:
  - redis-server
  - --maxmemory
  - 256mb
  - --maxmemory-policy
  - allkeys-lru
```

### Backup and Recovery

#### Backup database

```bash
kubectl exec deployment/postgres -n default -- pg_dump -U netauto netauto > backup.sql
```

#### Restore database

```bash
kubectl exec -i deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto netauto < backup.sql
```

#### Export configuration snapshots

```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, ConfigSnapshot
import json

db = SessionLocal()
snapshots = db.query(ConfigSnapshot).all()

data = [{
    "device_id": s.device_id,
    "created_at": s.created_at.isoformat(),
    "config_text": s.config_text,
    "hash": s.hash
} for s in snapshots]

with open("/tmp/snapshots.json", "w") as f:
    json.dump(data, f)

print(f"Exported {len(snapshots)} snapshots")
db.close()
PY

BACKEND_POD=$(kubectl get pods -l app=backend -n default -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
kubectl cp default/$BACKEND_POD:/tmp/snapshots.json ./snapshots.json
```

### Monitoring

#### Check service health

```bash
# Backend health
curl http://localhost:8000/health

# Database connections
kubectl exec deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto -d netauto -c "SELECT count(*) FROM pg_stat_activity;"

# Redis info
kubectl exec deployment/redis -n default -- redis-cli info
```

#### Monitor jobs

```bash
# Active jobs
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, Job

db = SessionLocal()
active = db.query(Job).filter(Job.status.in_(["queued", "running"])).count()
print(f"Active jobs: {active}")
db.close()
PY
```

#### Celery monitoring with Flower

Create `k8s/flower.yaml`:
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: flower
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: flower
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: flower
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: flower
        image: netauto-backend:latest
        command: ["celery", "-A", "app.celery_app", "flower", "--port=5555"]
        env:
        - name: CELERY_BROKER_URL
          value: redis://redis:6379/0
        ports:
        - containerPort: 5555
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: flower
spec:
  selector:
    app: flower
  ports:
  - port: 5555
    targetPort: 5555
```

Apply it:
```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/flower.yaml
kubectl port-forward svc/flower 5555:5555 -n default
```

Access at http://localhost:5555

## Best Practices

1. **Always preview before committing configs**
2. **Use meaningful source labels for backups**
3. **Test compliance policies on a small subset first**
4. **Regular database backups**
5. **Monitor job completion rates**
6. **Use tags for flexible device grouping**
7. **Implement least-privilege access**
8. **Rotate credentials regularly**
9. **Review job logs for errors**
10. **Document custom compliance policies**

Commit message:

Enhance documentation and improve backend functionality
- Updated README.md to reflect changes in the frontend architecture, replacing the deprecated React SPA with React Islands for interactive components.
- Revised quick start instructions to clarify build and deployment steps, including Docker Compose support.
- Enhanced progress tracking in progress.md with detailed audit findings and implemented fixes related to tenant scoping and SSH verification.
- Improved error handling in backend API views and consumers, ensuring more specific exceptions are caught and logged.
- Added SSH host verification settings in settings.py to enhance security.
- Updated job tasks to reflect rollback strategy implementation status.

Signed-off-by: Martin <thommesen.m@icloud.com>

docs/operations.md, after:

# Operations Guide

> Note: Parts of this document contain legacy examples from a previous FastAPI/React stack. For the authoritative, current guidance, see [Maintainers Guide](./maintainers.md). The operational concepts (jobs, backups, compliance) are unchanged, but example commands and module paths may differ.

This guide covers common operational tasks for the Network Automation application.

## Table of Contents
- [Initial Setup](#initial-setup)
- [Managing Devices](#managing-devices)
- [Running Commands](#running-commands)
- [Configuration Management](#configuration-management)
- [Compliance Checking](#compliance-checking)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Initial Setup

### Starting the Application

1. **Bootstrap dependencies and deploy to Kubernetes**:
```bash
make bootstrap
make dev-up
```

2. **Check service health**:
```bash
make k8s-status
kubectl logs -f deployment/backend -n default      # Backend logs
kubectl logs -f deployment/worker -n default       # Celery worker logs
```

3. **Run migrations & verify database**:
```bash
make migrate
kubectl exec deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto -d netauto -c "\dt"
```

4. **Create/refresh the default admin user and seed data**:
```bash
make seed-admin
```

### Stopping the Application

```bash
make dev-down
kubectl delete pvc sqlite-pvc postgres-pvc --ignore-not-found=true -n default  # optional wipe
```

## Managing Devices

### Adding Credentials

Credentials must be created before adding devices.

**Via API**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/credentials \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "cisco_lab",
    "username": "netadmin",
    "password": "C1sc0Passw0rd!",
    "enable_password": "En@bleP@ss"
  }'
```

**Via Python Script**:
```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, Credential

db = SessionLocal()
cred = Credential(
    name="cisco_lab",
    username="netadmin",
    password="C1sc0Passw0rd!",  # Should be encrypted
    enable_password="En@bleP@ss"
)
db.add(cred)
db.commit()
print(f"Credential created with ID: {cred.id}")
db.close()
PY
```

### Adding Devices

**Single Device via API**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "hostname": "sw-core-01",
    "mgmt_ip": "192.168.1.10",
    "vendor": "cisco",
    "platform": "ios",
    "role": "core",
    "site": "HQ",
    "tags": {"environment": "production"},
    "credentials_ref": 1,
    "enabled": true
  }'
```

**Bulk Import via Python Script**:
```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, Device, Credential

devices_data = [
    {"hostname": "sw-core-01", "mgmt_ip": "192.168.1.10", "platform": "ios"},
    {"hostname": "sw-core-02", "mgmt_ip": "192.168.1.11", "platform": "ios"},
    {"hostname": "sw-edge-01", "mgmt_ip": "192.168.2.10", "platform": "ios"},
]

db = SessionLocal()
cred = db.query(Credential).filter(Credential.name == "cisco_lab").first()

for data in devices_data:
    device = Device(
        hostname=data["hostname"],
        mgmt_ip=data["mgmt_ip"],
        vendor="cisco",
        platform=data["platform"],
        credentials_ref=cred.id,
        enabled=True
    )
    db.add(device)

db.commit()
print(f"Imported {len(devices_data)} devices")
db.close()
PY
```

### Viewing Devices

**List all devices**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Filter devices by site**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices?site=HQ" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Search devices**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices?search=core" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

### Updating Devices

```bash
curl -X PUT http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices/1 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "role": "distribution",
    "tags": {"environment": "production", "updated": "2024-01"}
  }'
```

### Deleting Devices

Deletion is a soft delete (sets `enabled=false`):
```bash
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices/1 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

## Running Commands

### Ad-Hoc Command Execution

**Single command**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/commands/run \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"site": "HQ"},
    "commands": ["show version"]
  }'
```

Response:
```json
{
  "job_id": 123
}
```

**Multiple commands**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/commands/run \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"role": "core"},
    "commands": [
      "show version",
      "show ip interface brief",
      "show running-config | include hostname"
    ]
  }'
```

**Targeting specific devices**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/commands/run \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"device_ids": [1, 2, 3]},
    "commands": ["show interfaces status"]
  }'
```

### Monitoring Job Progress

**Get job status**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/jobs/123 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Get job logs**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/jobs/123/logs \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Get command results**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/jobs/123/results \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

### Live Log Streaming

Connect via WebSocket for real-time updates:
```javascript
const ws = new WebSocket('ws://localhost:8000/ws/jobs/123');

ws.onmessage = (event) => {
  const log = JSON.parse(event.data);
  console.log(`[${log.level}] ${log.host}: ${log.message}`);
};
```

## Configuration Management

### Backing Up Configurations

**Backup all devices**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/backup \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {},
    "source_label": "manual"
  }'
```

**Backup specific site**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/backup \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"site": "HQ"},
    "source_label": "scheduled"
  }'
```

### Viewing Configuration History

**List snapshots for a device**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices/1/config/snapshots \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Get specific snapshot**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/snapshots/456 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Compare two snapshots**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/devices/1/config/diff?from=456&to=457" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

### Deploying Configuration Changes

**Step 1: Preview changes**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/deploy/preview \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "targets": {"device_ids": [1]},
    "mode": "merge",
    "snippet": "interface GigabitEthernet0/1\n description UPLINK\n"
  }'
```

This returns a job_id. Check the results to see the diff:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/jobs/789/results \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Step 2: Commit changes** (only if diff looks good):
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/config/deploy/commit \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "previous_job_id": 789,
    "confirm": true
  }'
```

### Rollback

If a commit fails, NAPALM automatically rolls back. To manually rollback:
1. Get the previous config snapshot
2. Deploy it using replace mode (with extreme caution)

## Compliance Checking

### Creating Compliance Policies

**Example policy YAML**:
```yaml
# ntp_policy.yaml
- get_facts:
    os_version: "15.6"

- get_ntp_servers:
    _mode: strict
    10.1.1.1: {}
    10.1.1.2: {}
```

**Create policy via API**:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/policies \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "NTP Configuration",
    "description": "Ensures NTP servers are configured",
    "scope_json": {"role": "core"},
    "definition_yaml": "<YAML_CONTENT_HERE>"
  }'
```

### Running Compliance Checks

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/run \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "policy_id": 1
  }'
```

### Viewing Compliance Results

**All results**:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/results \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Filter by policy**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/results?policy_id=1" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Filter by device**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/results?device_id=1" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

**Filter by status**:
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/compliance/results?status=fail" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### "Cannot connect to database"

Check PostgreSQL is running:
```bash
make k8s-status
kubectl logs deployment/postgres -n default
```

Verify connection:
```bash
kubectl exec deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto -d netauto -c "SELECT 1;"
```

#### "Celery worker not processing jobs"

Check worker status:
```bash
kubectl get pods -l app=worker -n default
kubectl logs deployment/worker -n default
```

Check Redis:
```bash
kubectl exec deployment/redis -n default -- redis-cli ping
```

Restart worker:
```bash
kubectl rollout restart deployment/worker -n default
```

#### "Device connection timeout"

1. Verify device is reachable:
```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- ping -c 3 <device_ip>
```

2. Check credentials are correct:
```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, Device, Credential

db = SessionLocal()
device = db.query(Device).filter(Device.hostname == "sw-core-01").first()
cred = device.credential
print(f"Username: {cred.username}")
# Test connection manually
db.close()
PY
```

3. Check firewall rules allow SSH from container

#### "Frontend cannot connect to backend"

Check CORS settings in `backend/app/core/config.py`:
```python
cors_origins: list[str] = ["http://localhost:3000"]
```

Verify backend is accessible:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/health
```

### Debugging

#### Enable debug logging

**Backend**:
Edit `backend/app/core/config.py`:
```python
log_level: str = "DEBUG"
```

Restart:
```bash
kubectl rollout restart deployment/backend -n default
```

**Celery**:
```bash
# Edit the deployment and change the command/args to include --loglevel=debug
kubectl edit deployment/worker -n default

# Follow logs once it restarts
kubectl logs -f deployment/worker -n default
```

#### View all logs

```bash
# Backend API
kubectl logs -f deployment/backend -n default

# Worker
kubectl logs -f deployment/worker -n default

# Last 100 lines without streaming
kubectl logs deployment/backend -n default --tail=100
```

#### Database inspection

```bash
kubectl exec -it deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto -d netauto <<'SQL'
\dt
SELECT id, hostname, mgmt_ip, enabled FROM devices LIMIT 5;
SELECT id, type, status, requested_at FROM jobs ORDER BY requested_at DESC LIMIT 10;
SELECT job_id, level, host, message FROM job_logs ORDER BY ts DESC LIMIT 20;
SQL
```

### Performance Tuning

#### Increase Celery workers

Edit `k8s/worker.yaml`:
```yaml
containers:
- name: worker
  command:
  - celery
  - -A
  - app.celery_app
  - worker
  - --loglevel=info
  - --concurrency=4
```

#### Database connection pooling

Edit `backend/app/core/config.py`:
```python
database_url: str = "postgresql://netauto:netauto@postgres:5432/netauto?pool_size=20&max_overflow=10"
```

#### Redis memory limit

Edit `k8s/redis.yaml`:
```yaml
containers:
- name: redis
  command:
  - redis-server
  - --maxmemory
  - 256mb
  - --maxmemory-policy
  - allkeys-lru
```

### Backup and Recovery

#### Backup database

```bash
kubectl exec deployment/postgres -n default -- pg_dump -U netauto netauto > backup.sql
```

#### Restore database

```bash
kubectl exec -i deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto netauto < backup.sql
```

#### Export configuration snapshots

```bash
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, ConfigSnapshot
import json

db = SessionLocal()
snapshots = db.query(ConfigSnapshot).all()

data = [{
    "device_id": s.device_id,
    "created_at": s.created_at.isoformat(),
    "config_text": s.config_text,
    "hash": s.hash
} for s in snapshots]

with open("/tmp/snapshots.json", "w") as f:
    json.dump(data, f)

print(f"Exported {len(snapshots)} snapshots")
db.close()
PY

BACKEND_POD=$(kubectl get pods -l app=backend -n default -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
kubectl cp default/$BACKEND_POD:/tmp/snapshots.json ./snapshots.json
```

### Monitoring

#### Check service health

```bash
# Backend health
curl http://localhost:8000/health

# Database connections
kubectl exec deployment/postgres -n default -- psql -U netauto -d netauto -c "SELECT count(*) FROM pg_stat_activity;"

# Redis info
kubectl exec deployment/redis -n default -- redis-cli info
```

#### Monitor jobs

```bash
# Active jobs
kubectl exec deploy/backend -n default -- python <<'PY'
from app.db import SessionLocal, Job

db = SessionLocal()
active = db.query(Job).filter(Job.status.in_(["queued", "running"])).count()
print(f"Active jobs: {active}")
db.close()
PY
```

#### Celery monitoring with Flower

Create `k8s/flower.yaml`:
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: flower
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: flower
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: flower
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: flower
        image: netauto-backend:latest
        command: ["celery", "-A", "app.celery_app", "flower", "--port=5555"]
        env:
        - name: CELERY_BROKER_URL
          value: redis://redis:6379/0
        ports:
        - containerPort: 5555
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: flower
spec:
  selector:
    app: flower
  ports:
  - port: 5555
    targetPort: 5555
```

Apply it:
```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/flower.yaml
kubectl port-forward svc/flower 5555:5555 -n default
```

Access at http://localhost:5555

## Best Practices

1. **Always preview before committing configs**
2. **Use meaningful source labels for backups**
3. **Test compliance policies on a small subset first**
4. **Regular database backups**
5. **Monitor job completion rates**
6. **Use tags for flexible device grouping**
7. **Implement least-privilege access**
8. **Rotate credentials regularly**
9. **Review job logs for errors**
10. **Document custom compliance policies**
